cnwan-operator/docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configure the Operator

This section will guide you through the steps you need to take to configure the CN-WAN Operator.

## Table of Contents

* [Format](#format)
* [Google Cloud Settings](#google-cloud-settings)
* [Set the Namespace List Policy](#set-the-namespace-list-policy)
* [Allow Annotations](#allow-annotations)
* [Deploy](#deploy)
* [Update](#update)

## Format

The CN-WAN Operator can be configured with the following YAML format.

```yaml
gcloud:
  serviceDirectory:
    region: <region>
    project: <project>
namespace:
  listPolicy: allowlist
service:
  annotations: []
```

## Google Cloud Settings

Under `gcloud` you can specify Google Cloud data. For example, you can specify the project and the region where Service Directory is enabled and you want to be managed.

You can modify `region` and `project` with the appropriate values.

For example:

```yaml
gcloud:
  serviceDirectory:
    region: us-central1
    project: this-is-my-project
```

## Set the Namespace List Policy

The operator will only monitor services that belong to a namespace that you have explicitly allowed.

if you haven't already, please take a look at [this section](./concepts.md#namespace-list-policy) to learn more about the *default namespace list policy*.

To set the list policy, change `listPolicy` value to either `allowlist` or `blocklist` like so:

```yaml
namespace:
  listPolicy: allowlist
```

## Allow Annotations

The operator will not register every annotation as metadata from a Kubernetes Service, but will only do so with the ones you have explicitly allowed.

if you haven't already, please take a look at [Metadata](./concepts.md#metadata), [Allowed Annotations](./concepts.md#allowed-annotations) and [Annotations vs Labels](./concepts.md#annotations-vs-labels) to learn more.

You can allow annotations by setting up `service.annotations` in the configuration. For example:

```yaml
service:
  annotations:
  - version
  - example.com/purpose
```

Values can also have wildcards. Example of accepted values are:

* Specific values, i.e. `example.prefix.com/name` or `annotation-key`
* Name wildcards, i.e. `example.prefix.com/*`: *all* annotations that have prefix `example.prefix.com` will be kept and registered, regardless of the name. For instance, `example.prefix.com/my-name` and `example.prefix.com/another-name` will both match and therefore be included in the service's entry as metadata, along with their values.
* Prefix wildcards, i.e. `*/name`, *all* annotations that have name `name` will be stored and registered, regardless of the prefix. `example.prefix.com/name` and `another.prefix.com/name` will both match.
* `*/*`: *all* annotations will be registered. We discourage you from using this value, as you may potentially expose sensitive information about the service.

For instance, take a look at this service's annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    my.prefix.com/my-name: test-value
    my.prefix.com/another-name: another-value
    another.prefix.com/another-name: yet-another-value
    name-with-no-prefix: simple-value
```

If you allow only the following annotations:

* `my.prefix.com/*`
* `name-with-no-prefix`

The service will be registered with the following metadata:

```yaml
my.prefix.com/my-name: test-value
my.prefix.com/another-name: another-value
name-with-no-prefix: simple-value
```

Finally, if you leave this empty - as `annotations: []`, then no service will match this and, therefore, no service will be registered.

## Deploy

To deploy these settings you will have to follow either [Basic Installation](./basic_installation.md) or [Advanced Installation](./advanced_installation.md).

## Update

To update the settings, you can run

```bash
kubectl edit configmap cnwan-operator-settings -n cnwan-operator-system
```

This will open your default editor and you will be able to edit the settings inline.

If successful, you will have to restart the operator for it to be able to acknowledge the changes:

```bash
# For Kubernetes 1.15+
kubectl rollout restart deployment cnwan-operator-controller-manager -n cnwan-operator-system
```

In case your Kubernetes version is lower, than you will have to either delete the pod or scale down the deployment:

```bash
NAME=$(kubectl get pods -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}' -n cnwan-operator-system)
kubectl delete pod $NAME
```

Commit message:

Pull in latest operator docs
Signed-off-by: Lori Jakab <lojakab@cisco.com>

cnwan-operator/docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configure the Operator

This section will guide you through the steps you need to take to configure the CN-WAN Operator.

## Table of Contents

* [Format](#format)
* [Set the Namespace List Policy](#set-the-namespace-list-policy)
* [Allow Annotations](#allow-annotations)
* [Service registry settings](#service-registry-settings)
* [Deploy settings](#deploy-settings)
* [Update settings](#update-settings)

## Format

The CN-WAN Operator can be configured with the following YAML format.

```yaml
namespace:
  listPolicy: allowlist
service:
  annotations: []
serviceRegistry:
  etcd:
    prefix: <prefix>
    authentication: <your-authentication-type>
    endpoints:
    - host: <host-1>
      port: <port-1>
    - host: <host-2>
      port: <port-2>
  gcpServiceDirectory:
    defaultRegion: <region>
    projectID: <project>
```

## Set the Namespace List Policy

The operator will only monitor services that belong to a namespace that you have explicitly allowed.

if you haven't already, please take a look at [this section](./concepts.md#namespace-list-policy) to learn more about the *default namespace list policy*.

To set the list policy, change `listPolicy` value to either `allowlist` or `blocklist` like so:

```yaml
namespace:
  listPolicy: allowlist
```

## Allow Annotations

The operator will not register every annotation as metadata from a Kubernetes Service, but will only do so with the ones you have explicitly allowed.

if you haven't already, please take a look at [Metadata](./concepts.md#metadata), [Allowed Annotations](./concepts.md#allowed-annotations) and [Annotations vs Labels](./concepts.md#annotations-vs-labels) to learn more.

You can allow annotations by setting up `service.annotations` in the configuration. For example:

```yaml
service:
  annotations:
  - version
  - example.com/purpose
```

Values can also have wildcards. Example of accepted values are:

* Specific values, i.e. `example.prefix.com/name` or `annotation-key`
* Name wildcards, i.e. `example.prefix.com/*`: *all* annotations that have prefix `example.prefix.com` will be kept and registered, regardless of the name. For instance, `example.prefix.com/my-name` and `example.prefix.com/another-name` will both match and therefore be included in the service's entry as metadata, along with their values.
* Prefix wildcards, i.e. `*/name`, *all* annotations that have name `name` will be stored and registered, regardless of the prefix. `example.prefix.com/name` and `another.prefix.com/name` will both match.
* `*/*`: *all* annotations will be registered. We discourage you from using this value, as you may potentially expose sensitive information about the service.

For instance, take a look at this service's annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    my.prefix.com/my-name: test-value
    my.prefix.com/another-name: another-value
    another.prefix.com/another-name: yet-another-value
    name-with-no-prefix: simple-value
```

If you allow only the following annotations:

* `my.prefix.com/*`
* `name-with-no-prefix`

The service will be registered with the following metadata:

```yaml
my.prefix.com/my-name: test-value
my.prefix.com/another-name: another-value
name-with-no-prefix: simple-value
```

Finally, if you leave this empty - as `annotations: []`, then no service will match this and, therefore, no service will be registered.

## Service registry settings

Under `serviceRegistry` you define which service registry to use and how the operator should connect to it or manage its objects.

As of now, only one of `etcd` or `gcpServiceDirectory` is allowed, and therefore you should remove the one that you don't use. Please follow one of the following guides to learn how to configure the Operator with the chosen service registry:

* [etcd](./etcd/operator_configuration.md)
* [service directory](./gcp_service_directory/configure_with_operator.md)

## Deploy settings

To deploy these settings you will have to follow either [Basic Installation](./basic_installation.md) or [Advanced Installation](./advanced_installation.md).

## Update settings

To update the settings, you can run

```bash
kubectl edit configmap cnwan-operator-settings -n cnwan-operator-system
```

This will open your default editor and you will be able to edit the settings inline.

If successful, you will have to restart the operator for it to be able to acknowledge the changes:

```bash
# For Kubernetes 1.15+
kubectl rollout restart deployment cnwan-operator-controller-manager -n cnwan-operator-system
```

In case your Kubernetes version is lower, than you will have to either delete the pod or scale down the deployment:

```bash
NAME=$(kubectl get pods -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}' -n cnwan-operator-system)
kubectl delete pod $NAME
```
